#WL4Editor user helpfile 
 
##Part 1: About ROM and Level Loading 

There are 3 official Wario Land 4 ROM, English version, Japanese version and Chinese version. In this period, we only support editting English version of WL4 ROM, the editor will check the ROM header to see if your ROM is an  English version, loading any other file is not permitted. If you are using a ROM with other language translated by some other 3rd-party team, then if the resourxe ROM they used is an English version, you perhaps will be able to make levels using this editor, but the functionailty to change the levels' names won't be able to work correctly for sure. 
You can select which Level to load by using the Button "Load Level", and switch to different Room in the current Level by using the Buttoms "<" and ">".
 
##Part 2: About editting mode 
After you opening the ROM in the editor and it renders out the first Room from level ``Hall of Hieroglyphs``, you can find a Dockwindow on the right side of the Mainwindow named ``Visibility and Editing Controls``. you can choosean edit mode in Mainwindow here, the default mode is ``Layer`` means Layers editting. 
####MAP edtting 
In ``Layer`` mode, ``Tile16 Selector`` Dockwindow shows up, you can click and select Tile16 from the GraphicView and click to put the Tile16 into the Room. Always make sure which layer you are editting on, you can know it by have a look at which Layer you have selected in ``Visibility and Editing Controls`` Dockwindow. Remember that you cannot put Tile16 onto Layer 3, it is for background layer only, that Layer use Tile8x8 but not Tile16 for mapping, and we just have not supported editting that yet. 
There are up to 4 Layers totally in one Room numbered from 0 to 3, not all of them will be used in the Room. If the CheckBox of a Layer is disabled, then it is unused in this Room and you cannot select and edit it. you can enable/disable Layer 0, 2 and 3(Background Layer) by changgin configuration in ``Room Config Dialog``(menu -> Edit -> Room Config). You always need at least one Layer(Layer 1) to put MAP16 in a Room. 
Layers can have different priority orders in different Rooms and Levels, you can find the priority in ``Room Config Dialog``. Priority also affect the graphic effect when you apply color composition to them. The Game engine let the Layer 0 be able to color-composite to the Layer(s) under it, it is called color(alpha) blending of the Layer 0. You can open ``Room Config Dialog``, enable/disable Layer 0 color blending and pick a blending params solution to configure the color blending effect. it use this calculation to blend color for all the three color channels: 
``final_clolr = Layer0_color x param_1 + underlying_graphic_color + param_2`` 
It is color blending let the Rooms have semi-transparent water and stream, and different light and shadow areas under electric lamps, etc. Use color blending of Layer 0 flexibly can make better and inspiring Levels. To have a look at the original Layer 0 without color blending, unselect CheckBox "A"(Alpha) in ``Visibility and Editing Controls`` Dockwindow. 
####Door Editting 
All the places in Rooms causing Wario warp or indirectly warp into a different place are called Doors. so it is obvious that they have different types, vortex and real door and instant warp are different. You can switch to Door editting mode by selecting "Door" RadioButtom in ``Visibility and Editing Controls`` Dockwindow. 
the Blue rectangles rendered in the Room show the size and the place of all the Doors in the current Room. you can select Door in Door editting mode, click the selected Door again to open ``Door COnfig Dialog``. most of the things in this dialog is self-evident, only some of them need an explanation. 
The BGM is saved and ordered using a global Id, go out from a Door can change/unchange the BGM, if you set a new id(not 0) for the current Door, then the BGM will be changed, if you set it to 0, it will continually play the previous BGM.
Also EntitySet is saved in Door data. There is a Room in ``Arabic Night``, you go into a pipe and the Enimies in the Room change to bees/bats. it is an evidence that EntitySet configuration param is saved in Door data. The whole thing is complicated. Every Room has 3 Entity lists(only include local Entity id numbers) which save place and Entity Id appearing in 3 different difficulties. The game engine cannot load all the graphics of all the Entities in to the RAM so every time it can load a part of them. Each part are made into a set called EntitySet. Every Door can have its own EntitySet Id flag to let the Room show up different Enimies. So you should pick up a proper EntitySet for each Door.